---
layout: archive 
title: ""
permalink: /Projects/
author_profile: true
redirect_from:
  - /resume
---


# Completed and Ongoing Projects

## Precision Agriculture Model to Increase Crop Productivity in India using Big Data
**Sponsored by: Department of Science and Technology, Government of India** \
The core objective of this project is to develop a suitable prediction model to predict the weather condition and crop diseases using soil condition and environmental variables with Big Data in the geographical location of India. To create an effective and connected national smart agriculture system that enables smart decision making in agriculture management in India and ensures national alignment for implementation. The aim of developing models to predict with high impact but not to simply explain the relationship between the soil and environmental parameters. Therefore, co-linearity between present variables and past variables are included in a final model. With the crop disease prediction, the farmer could use it to make economic decisions aboutdisease treatments for control. The model recommendation is made about whether disease treatment is necessary or not. Weather forecasting with Big Data with the consideration of soil condition is the new approach which can lead to smart decision making based on environmental data. These kind of prediction models are useful in decision-making system where agriculture system is not well managed.

## IoT based Decision Support System for Efficient Irrigation in Agriculture
**Sponsored by: Agro glean system (AGS), Enterprise, India** \
Irrigation is an essential agricultural practice for food, pasture, and fiber production in semiarid and arid areas. In many countries, including India, efficient water use and management are today’s major concerns. The bulk of the irrigation water is sourced from rivers and dams and conveyed via open channels or pipelines to irrigated farms for storage before use or direct application to root zones. Irrigators who use groundwater often have storage tanks on their properties. Globally, it is estimated that about 70% of freshwater abstracted is used to irrigate 25% of the world’s croplands (399 million ha) which supply 45% of global food. Water used for industrial and domestic purposes accounts for approximately 20% and 10% of the total global water usage, respectively. The demand for freshwater resources is on the increase. The trend is likely to continue with the increasing population that comes with increased demand for food and fiber and the predicted negative impacts of climate change. There is also increased awareness of the need to provide sufficient water to serve other ecological services. There appears to be a consensus that irrigated agriculture, in general, is up against a future with less water. Automatic irrigation scheduling systems are highly demanded in the agricultural sector due to their ability to save water and manage deficit irrigation strategies. Elaborating on a functional and efficient automatic irrigation system is a complex task due to the high number of factors that the technician considers when optimally managing irrigation. Automatic learning systems propose an alternative to traditional irrigation management utilizing the automatic elaboration of predictions. This proposal aims to develop an automatic Smart Irrigation Decision Support System, SIDSS, to manage irrigation in agriculture. Our system will estimate the weekly irrigation needs of a plantation-based on both soil measurements and climatic variables gathered by several autonomous nodes deployed in the field. This will enable a closed- loop control scheme to adapt the decision support system to local perturbations and estimation errors.


## A Retrospective Review on Trend in the Shift of Crop Plantation Index With the Change in Climatic Conditions
**Sponsored by: Agro glean system (AGS), Enterprise, India** \
Advanced technology in agriculture can help to know about suitable environmental conditions, soil health status, water and fertilizer requirements, and crop monitoring at every plant growth stage, resulting in higher yield. In the past few decades, many countries have witnessed different rain and temperature patterns due to change in environmental conditions. The plantation schedule imparts mark-able effects on the crop yield. The correct and well-planned schedule can result in getting maximum productivity with limited resources. The work under this project presents rule-based fuzzy classification method, for predicting the sowing fuzziness based on environmental conditions. The proposed study is a three-step procedure that identifies the sowing time of Cotton, Maize, and Groundnut. First, the knowledge and rule base of the fuzzy inference system is designed. In the second step rule base of the fuzzy inference system is optimized using multi-objective evolutionary algorithm NSGA-II, which helps maximize the accuracy and minimize the number of fuzzy rules taken for classification. Finally, the fuzziness of crop sowing in different slots is determined. Set of solutions in NSGA-II are validated through a cross-validation approach. Further, the fuzziness of the sowing slot of Cotton, Maize, and Groundnut is correlated to yield in a given year to measure the model’s effectiveness.
